# Lessons from helping my 80 year old Ukrainian grandmothers reach safety

```
Compression: 96.61583455191143% (4625/4787)
Rouge 2: 79.20024487292297%
Rouge L: 81.93697780227411%
MD Similarity: 99.71871376037598%
Overall: 90.14366254898725%
```

My grandmothers, both in their mid- to late 80s, escaped Ukraine this weekend, a feat we did not expect to achieve, not only because of their age but also because of the rapidly deteriorating conflict. They awakened their Odessa apartment at 6 a.m. and travelled by bus, foot, and ferry all day until finally arriving in Bulgaria at 4 a.m., where they stayed the night before the next leg of their journey. We heard that the route they took was blocked the next day due to fighting and bombing in the area. (1) **Conditions change quickly. For the most up-to-date details, use social media. ** Multiple Facebook and Telegram groups ([1](https://t.me/pomojiukr), [2](https://t.me/OdessaMoldovaExpress), [4](https://t.me/huiiivoiiine)), where we were able to locate evacuation buses, drivers, and [wait times for border crossings](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vTmKNAxZn2cPpBqPHnRx9Hc_GPzfi7U92h05hkNuES6pA8l7IcbfdRELMkTBWGcBFoRkUdwlnfX889X/pubhtml?gid=0&single=true&fbclid=IwAR1qTqmfhHYDYFB_N14kCXweiK3BWVGzSfIYlpnD1UhYU33c-Tm0LJQYSuw). It was impossible to find a taxi to the bus terminal in the morning of my grandmothers' departure because air raid sirens had been operational during the night. Fortunately, a private driver responded to my Telegram request at 3 a.m. and kindly sent someone to arrive by 6 a.m. It goes without saying that recruiting an unvetted stranger during a war poses some risk; use good judgment and caution. (2) **Find travel companions. ** Men aged 18 to 60 are forbidden from leaving the country under martial law. It is cruel, obstructing families to make the difficult decision between staying together or fleeing to safety. As a result, women and children must cross the border alone. This trip was especially difficult for my elderly grandmothers. We were delighted to find another woman via Facebook who was eager to travel and agreed to form a small group. They met for the first time the day before their flight and spent the night together in my grandmother's apartment. They helped each other over the next 24 hours by carrying bags, exchanging cell phone battery packs, and posting details. I began to think of my grandmothers' companion as their Guardian Angel. Guarante Angel had to leave her 25-year-old son behind in Ukraine, which was sad to me. **To quickly share details and save precious cell phone battery space, create a group on a messaging app**. On both directions, we formed a Viber group that included my grandmothers, their companion, and several family members from both groups. The group enabled us to share details quickly and efficiently. Those of us supporting the journey from afar may "divide and conquer" the logistics, researching forthcoming accommodation options, finding drivers, and understanding visa and COVID requirements at border crossings. (4) **Take a picture on the day of the trip and share it with loved ones. ** My grandmothers were separated in the crowd at the border, resulting in a small panic for all concerned. They were able to reunite after a brief search, which was fortunately. You can get the crowd to help you look by shouting "I'm looking for Nina, she's 8 (or 88) years old, wearing a black hat and a brown coat." When their cell phone batteries and roaming credits were depleted, the photographs were also helpful at the end of my family's journey. We took photographs to the taxi driver at the bus station to help them recognize them in the crowd. (5) If it is safe to do so under the circumstances, 

 (5) Enable geolocation tracking. ** Using a "pin," my grandmother's companion shared her location with her family, helping estimate arrival times at borders or at the final destination. Click [here](https://www.theverge.com/22676312/ios-iphone-apple-location-tracking-turn-off-on) for instructions on how to enable this feature. (6) **Conserve cell phone power. ** Take turns with your phones on if you're traveling in a group. Turn off wifi and bluetooth, or set the phone to airplane mode. Bring an external battery pack and make sure you have the right cords for your device. (Yes, my grandmother brought her battery pack but forgot the cord. Fortunately, a volunteer at the border was able to give her a spare, and her travel companion shared important details using her phone in the meantime). (7) **Keep the faith. ** Despite a long, tiring, and difficult journey, my grandparents made the first leg of the journey in good spirits. I was awe at their courage and tenacity. My grandmother, a survivor of WWII and now the War in Ukraine, told me on her arrival to Bulgaria Keep your health and stay safe. 
