# Putin has destroyed Russia for future generation

```
Compression: 99.27501208313195% (10270/10345)
Rouge 2: 79.2611063556914%
Rouge L: 84.52798363092013%
MD Similarity: 99.5879912032531%
Overall: 90.74126809827942%
```

On today, my friend in Kyiv, a mother who had just been separated from her children when they were evacuated out of the city, wrote on Twitter: This brought home to me what Putin has now done to Russia and to all Russians, irreversibly. Germans have spent the past 80 years apologizing for what their predecessors did. Putin is cursing Russians with the same burden. I grew up around this hatred. [My grandmother's entire extended family was killed in German concentration camps](https://tswriting.medium.com/what-i-learned-from-my-grandma-cffe6251ff54). My father was evacuated to America and didn't really know his father until he was seven years old. [My grandfather was released from Belsen concentration camp](https://medium.com/lessons-from-history/75-years-ago-my-grandfather-arrived-at-belsen-concentration-camp-8a34eedac2af), and he never fully recovered from what he saw. That deep hatred has existed for generations, not years. It becomes embedded in the collective identity and culture of the people Putin is lost in his own false propaganda and twisted interpretation of history. He doesn't live in the 21st century, so he didn't know Ukraine has been open to the world ever since it sacked out his last puppet king. Westerners have been there for holidays, and Ukrainians live and work in towns and cities around Europe and America. Ukraine is not a far-away place with whom we have no emotional ties (as may be the case with Chechnya and Syria). Many of us in the West are watching the shelling of cities we've visited and seeing people we know post videos and photos of their homes and families under attack on our social media pages. Soon, I fear, we will start hearing accounts of people we know being killed by Russian soldiers and bombs. This is a European war. Putin was unable to comprehend that Ukraine is now Europe. He's much too late to do anything to prevent that. The reaction has been quick. Everyone is behind Ukraine. Everything Russian is being boycotted; the Russian economy is now bloated. Russia, as a brand, is now so poisonous that no company can afford any association with it. Everything is being withheld from Russia. Putin's Russia is now North Korea, not the previous great Imperial Russia of the past. President Putin has become so isolated in his high castle that he has completely lost touch with the present, as many Tsars and tyrants before him. As a result, Putin has quickly made Russia hated around the world. Russia has very few friends, from UN votes to social media to boycotts. I feel sorry for the Russians who do not support this war or tyrant. For decades to come, their country will be like Germany after the last war; they will also be apologizing for the next 50-80 years. To give it some context and as an example for those younger than me, many of the older generation around me refused to buy German or Japanese products in the 1970s and 1980s. Germany was openly feared and mocked. What we would now consider racist jokes about Germans was completely acceptable. This was because the people I grew up around had been bombed by Germans, including today's Ukrainians, who had fought against Germans, known people who had been killed by the Germans. I grew up around war veterans, Holocaust survivors, and women who had been mothers during the Blitz, just like Ukrainian mothers now in Kharkiv. It is no coincidence that, despite flying all over Europe as I grew up, I only visited Germany for the first time in my 30s. By the time I was in my late 30s, I had German friends and became very fond of the country and people, but by then, my grandparents' generation had mostly died. I had been given sarcastic remarks and surprised looks if I had gone to Germany or had German friends, let alone bought a German car while they were alive and young. Once my grandparents' generation had died, the really bad hatred that had existed for a long time began to diminish. I now live in a Europe where it would be inappropriate and irrational to hate Germans or Germany because of what happened in the war. We haven't moved forward or forgotten those crimes, but Germany is a new world, with new generations of people, and both have led by example when it comes to owning and building positively on their history. And yet, even a few years ago, I was out one night in Berlin. Kreuzberg was razzled as ever. A teenage boy was seen weeping in a doorway. We went over to see if he was okay. He was a little inebriated and very emotional. He told us he had just been researching what his country had done in the war with tears in his eyes. The full gravity of what his grandparents' generation had done or failed to avoid as he entered adulthood and his sense of self was emerging. He was owning it all, feeling the full weight of history press on him, he was truly distraught, overflowing with guilt, anguish, and shame. We sat for a long time, discussing him. We told him it was not *him*, and there was nothing *he* should feel responsible for. History was history, and he was part of the new Germany — here we were, a British Jew and a young German in a vibrant and open city, freely celebrating. It was fine now. However, I knew he'd spend the coming years learning how to disentangle himself from his country's past, as so many other German friends of mine have done. This was far from being the first time I had seen a young German struggle with their history, so I wanted to know what being German means in the shadow of the last century. It's difficult, unfair, and a betrayal of them by previous generations. It's also a personal and collective process that has contributed to what makes Germany such a strong nation now and a symbol of peace and freedom. I was reminded of him today on the tube in London. A Russian couple were seated across from me chatting in Russian. I felt myself gazing at them, and I noticed other people watching them. I discovered that all Russians had just changed, although not many of them were aware of it. They will begin to experience hatred, bigotry, violence, sideways glances, and animosity. It may not be fair or justified. They may be the best and kindest people, whether they be anti-Putin activists or anti-Putin activists, but they may now be among the many refugees from his draconian rule, but they are now under the shadow of his crimes because human rights are now under scrutiny. I'm afraid that many of us in the West, including London, New York, will have seen streets in Ukraine blighted by Russian bombs and soldiers, and that we will know acquaintances, or acquaintances of friends, who were killed by Russian bombs and soldiers by the end of the war. The scar will not heal because grief does not end. I will never forget or excuse it if the Russian army murders my relatives. It will influence my whole relationship with Russia for the remainder of my life, and a portion of it will pass to my children and grandchildren, as it did from my grandparents to me last century. Our children will grow up with tales of this war, with the raw sadness and rage we are feeling. No matter that so many Russians do not support this war.

 Whether it's true or not. Once it starts to kill people we know, we'll find it difficult not to hold them accountable — it was their country, their leader, and their army. I pity them just as I found myself pitying teenage Germans. It is not a rational response, but it is inevitable. It's unfair on thousands of Russians detained for protesting this war, as well as those who are as shocked as we are. This is what Putin is doing to Russia right now. He is shaming the entire Russian people, even those that have yet to be born, to bear the burden of his crimes for generations. This will not be forgotten in a few years or even in a few decades. He wanted to shape Russian history and secure his place in history; he has succeeded. He will now be remembered for bombing civilians, burning beautiful towns, perpetrating war crimes, and crimes against humanity. He has re-written Russian history from a failed dictatorship to an enslavessor who brought death and disgrace to Europe. It's already too late for him and for Russia now. He will never be forgiven as time goes by. And the most brainwashed Russians will know the truth about Putin, that sent a massive army into a peaceful world and killed women, children, and fellow Slavs for no reason other than hubris and ego. He will be hated forever, like Hitler and Stalin. However, I feel for the Russians, the young Russians, who have either had to flee or are trapped in their draconian rule. I feel sorry for the next generation of Russians who will have to disentangle themselves from these crimes as young Germans have had to do. The harm Putin has done to Russia over the past week is greater than all the harm he has done over the last few decades. It is now a hated nation, a pariah, and there is no hint that Putin's Russia has anything positive to say about it. The veils of civility have fallen, and the lustre of Russian money has been tarnished. The party is over for the oligarchs, and the West will now begin to shift away from tolerating both Russian aggression and Russian money. I was going to write that it would take generations for the Ukrainian people to forgive Russia, but I suspect that Ukraine will never excuse Russia. A visceral, almost genetic, and hysteria will now flow down through the generations. Russia will spend a decade or more rebuilding its image in the rest of the world. And if Putin's demise, which is now a certainty, and even if someone like Navalny manages to come to power and rebuild the country's country into some sort of vaguely functioning democracy, Russia will always have this war in its history. It will be the country that broke the peace Europe has enjoyed for two generations. History has never seen men like Putin before. Hitler set out to build a bigger Germany but ended up destroying everything else, including Germany. Putin is destroying Ukraine, and he's also destroying Russia. He will have scarred generations of hatred, pain, and grief into the Ukrainian people's collective memory, as well as ruined the future for his own people by the time he's finished There is no other end. It's a tragedy for everybody. 
