# What’s About To Happen In Ukraine

```
Compression: 101.03850455344303% (18972/18777)
Rouge 2: 70.82067252691753%
Rouge L: 79.68397961358724%
MD Similarity: 95.95425955243984%
Overall: 85.60329281134611%
```

This morning, I awakened to the hopeful news that some Russian forces are [pulling back from the border](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-60392259) with Ukraine. Unfortunately, this isn't quite the positive sign it should be. Anyone who is familiar with Russian military history and doctrine knows that Moscow relies on *maskirovka*. Russiaphobic bigots [like Anne Applebaum](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2022/02/lavrov-russia-diplomacy-ukraine/622075/) seem to believe that Russians are always lying, but this isn't the case. Maskirovka is about keeping an opponent guessing about your true intentions, and nothing more — everything else is just fluff designed to muddy waters. Putin, an old KGB hand, knows this game and plays it well. Everything Russia has achieved for the past year makes perfect sense if you accept that what Putin is after is actually very straightforward. He wants Ukraine to become a Russian client state as Belarus is today. This would rule out the likelihood that Ukraine will ever join NATO. Any smart observer knows [Ukraine isn't joining NATO any time soon](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/13/us/politics/nato-ukraine.html). Ukraine is too corrupt and undemocratic to be eligible for membership now, and NATO will not be around in ten years, and its member states know it. NATO serves as a way for American taxpayers to fund defense spending. 

 NATO should be able to assist defense spending. In exchange, European leaders get a ready-made excuse to allow America to do their dirty jobs while still behaving in public as if they're restraining America's worst impulses. NATO [utterly failed in Afghanistan for a reason](https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/czech-president-natos-failure-afghanistan-puts-its-legitimacy-question-2021-08-17/): NATO has always been a bluff, a shaky alliance led by [mutual mortal adversaries Greece and Turkey](https://www.brookings.edu/research/turkey-europe-and-the-eastern-mediterranean-charting-a-way-out-of-the-current-deadlock/) that has been a bluff, with [mutual mortal enemies Greece and Turkey](https://www.brookings.edu/research/turkey-europe-and-the-eastern-mediterranean-charting-a-way-out-of-the-current-deadlock/) aiming to discourage the Soviet Union from threatening countries critical to American interests. NATO allowed Hungary and Czechoslovakia to fall to Moscow when Joe Biden was young, and the only battles it has ever fought against Serbian and Taliban militants. However, Russian leaders like Putin don't look at the present and assume it will continue forever. They plan ten years down the road, utilizing their recent experience of being basically at the mercy of America and NATO in the 1990s and 2000s. Americans blindly joined in the fake war to protect democracy as if America itself is one, but autocrats like Putin aren't accountable to anyone, but this isn't strictly true. The Russian people could revolt against their draconian government, but few will protest against their draconian government as long as the economy is stable and Russia feels important on the international stage, as well as America's for all world powers. Putin stays in office by promising that enough of the right people will be consulted to ensure that this is always the case. So, he has a right to look into the future and estimate where Russia *will be in a decade.* Because Ukraine continues to insist [Crimea and Donbas belong to it](https://www.france24.com/en/europe/20210823-ukraine-opens-international-summit-calling-for-return-of-crimea-from-russia) (and in an international legal sense, this is of course true), a future nightmare scenario haunts Moscow's hopes, where Ukraine joins NATO and then tries to regain these territories, plunging Russia into a conflict it may not be prepared for. From Putin's perspective, Ukraine must be neutralized, and the fact that the Zelensky government refuses to suspend NATO membership raises his doubts. Putin is clearly determined to end the unbalanced situation along the Russian-Ukraine border one way or another, and although he may be bluffing about the possibility of it happening, the danger of it happening can't be ignored. Major Russian military forces  [who were deployed](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2022/01/15/heres-what-we-know-about-russias-military-buildup-near-ukraine/) in Siberia have been relocated to Siberia's western military districts. It is no accident that they are arranged in a way that makes it impossible to determine when an attack is about to begin and occupy Ukraine if push comes to shove. Putin does not want to embark on a large-scale invasion of Ukraine. However, he's giving every credible indication that if he wants to go down this road, he's willing to go down this road, and he might if his goals cannot be achieved in any other way. American leaders are obsessed with the idea of [deterrence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deterrence_theory), making the fatal mistake in failing to think from Putin's perspective. Deterrence is derived from [cost-benefit analysis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cost%E2%80%93benefit_analysis), a process I became familiar with when obtaining two of policy focused masters degrees in grad school. Americans are completely *lurve* cost-benefit analysis because it seems more concrete than it really is. What gets counted as a cost or benefit is usually a matter of perspective, and those with privilege often get the costs and insurance policies set the way they like more often than not. CBA is used in policy mostly to justify an action that some politician wants to take and needs to cover for, but typically excludes critical soft factors such as future forecasts. When an opponent decides that the costs America is willing to pay are irrelevant, as they usually are, American deterrence falls short. This is why America's sanctions obsession is so vain and toothless — by the time they're applied, the perpetrator has already found a way around them. Sanctions are a way of being tougher to a domestic audience and little more. The threat of being cut off from the global banking system or natural gas exports to Europe is easily mitigated with Chinese help — Russia and China are [officially strong allies now](https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/russia-china-forge-closer-ties-us-preoccupied-struggles-home-rcna15722), like the US and UK. Because America under Biden has refused to make sense and work out a long-term stable agreement to avoid any war over Taiwan or the South China Sea, China has no reason to shame Putin. The world has seen NATO scramble and take ineffective steps to shield itself, leaving Ukraine practically alone, armed with weapons only truly useful in a bitter, [mutually destructive rebellion](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/14/us/politics/russia-ukraine-biden-military.html). [Public proclamations of NATO unity](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/14/world/europe/nato-russia-ukraine-europe.html) are masking deep divides between the key continental European participants, Germany and France, and the United Kingdom/UK. Putin has now successfully bluffed the United States and the United Kingdom into [pulling consultants out of Ukraine](https://www.cnbc.com/2022/02/12/pentagon-orders-departure-of-us-troops-in-ukraine.html) and [issue panic alerts](https://www.npr.org/2022/02/11/1080060546/biden-us-citizens-leave-ukraine) to civilians to evacuate, while [offering no assistance](https://www.npr.org/2022/02/11/1080060546/biden-us-citizens-leave-ukraine) if they're trapped in the conflict or, y'know, have Ukrainian families who can't just up and leave. Airlines are no longer operating because of the threat of conflict. Investing in Ukraine is going to be a big risk going forward. America's leadership is assisting Putin in his victory. The irony is that *so far* all Putin has done is load his rifle and do some target practice around Ukraine. Putin doesn't have to decide on a date to invade Ukraine; he can simply park his troops where they are located as a persistent, existential threat. The suggestion that Russia will attack Ukraine out of nowhere is ridiculous, because he gains much more by exhausting Ukraine over time with regular aggressive moves, which Kyiv can't ignore than a massive invasion. Russia intelligence has been aggressively engaged on a maskirovka campaign specifically designed to gaslight American and allied intelligence for the past month. Politicians and pundits are latching onto every intelligence intercept  [alleging nefarious Russian actions](https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2022/02/does-biden-still-think-a-russian-invasion-is-inevitable.html) ranging from false-flag attacks to coup plots against Zelensky. What's funny about watching the Biden Administration pretend it can deter Russian actions by pointing out everything they're talking about is that it gives Russia a direct means of faking America out. Now knowing that Biden is going to publicly announce every bizarre plan that someone discusses in Moscow, Putin has been able to trap him in a dynamic where America seems to be screaming chicken every five minutes. Biden, with every warning not backed by a threat of meaningful action, weakens America's position, which is a positive side effect from Putin's perspective. If any diplomatic agreement prevents the outbreak of war, it will be from German efforts underway this week. Putin pulling some troops from the border ahead of the new German chancellor Scholz is a classic tactic. It *looks* like he's keeping a diplomatic off ramp, which he is, but not for the reasons American leaders hope. From Putin's remark about *why* Russia cares so much about Ukraine has suggested a concrete conclusion: Russia has denied that Ukraine is planning an attack in Donbas, and that if Crimea is affecting Russian civilians, which would hurt Russian civilians. Yesterday, the Russian Duma ordered Putin to honor Donetsk and Lukhansk, which means Russia will more or less annex them under the pretense of safeguarding Russian civilians. Over the past year, Russia's military buildup has been slow and deliberate, with sudden movements under the guise of exercises. This is a long-term change in Russia's positions meant to announce that Russia trusts China and that future conflicts in Europe and Asia will always be linked. I seriously doubt any conflict in Ukraine begins with a sudden Russian attack — the bluff that might have been useful in causing London and Washington to panic, but not in accordance with Putin's domestic rhetoric. What he needs to justify an attack is an outburst of brutality that seems to be on the rise in Donbas. Of course, this is why American and British media have been [hyping the danger of a false-flag attack](https://www.cnn.com/2022/01/14/politics/us-intelligence-russia-false-flag/index.html). They're doing this because by definition false-flag operations are impossible to attribute with any certainty — if an attack comes, everyone will believe what they want to. My suspicion is that Wagner-affiliated mercenaries are planning a major attack with chemical weapons somewhere in Donbas that will take place before the end of February. Both American and [Russian sources](https://www.politico.eu/article/russia-us-mercenaries-plan-chemical-attack-ukraine/) weeks ago speculated at the other side launching some sort of chemical weapons attack, which is typical in false-flag operations. No one will know who did it for some time until one is announced. Syria used chemical weapons in Syria[, and several key facts are now in question by public scrutiny.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Use_of_chemical_weapons_in_the_Syrian_civil_war) People from both sides will believe what their leaders and media insist is true — the old saying about the first casualty of war being the truth sticks around for a reason. Just as Americans are fighting with each other over what happened in the Capitol Attack, pundits in America and Russia are arguing that the other side is telling lies. There are now two main scenarios for how the Ukraine crisis will end. One of the two major blowups that caused a Russian ultimatum to Zelensky. This will force Ukraine to choose either unfair talks that result in the cession of Donbas and Crimea permanently or a large war that Ukraine cannot win without significant direct military assistance, which Biden has already ruled out in an idiotic, counterproductive self-own. My hysteria is hoping that [Germany convinces Putin](https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/scholz-flies-moscow-bid-avert-war-2022-02-15/) that it will prevent Ukraine from joining NATO by establishing concrete terms on membership. 

 Those are unlikely to be able to meet for twenty years. Autonomy for Donbas and an understanding that Crimea will remain Russian plus an effective demilitarized zone buffering the two sides along their mutual boundaries are also likely to be required to prevent a war. The conflict has to be settled for a decade, and I suspect it will be this year, one way or another. Now that Ukraine is alone, Putin can keep ratcheting up pressure on Kyiv until he gets what he wants or Zelensky falls, opening the way for a coup and the sudden deployment of military forces under the new regime's invitation. Putin's priorities in this crisis are ranked according to importance: 1. Neutralize the threat of Ukraine joining NATO anytime soon. Maintain power over the majority Russian-speaking Donbas3 is in charge. Weaken NATO over the long run by revealing its inefficiencies. Demonstrate America's inability to move to actually protect allies. Pull Ukraine will be permanently attached to Russia's orbit forever For all NATO's bluster over being more united than ever and a handful of American combat troops deployed to feign real commitment, it is clear that Putin has already achieved 3 and 4. Biden is backing down as quickly as he can in the face of direct military threats to a partner that could hurt American civilians, while trying to refocus America's attention on China. Now, 

So, Putin is now aiming to solve 1 and 2. He would obviously prefer to win through negotiations, but it is clear that even at a significant price to Russia's international reputation and long-term relationship with Ukraine, he is committed to victory. The main deterrent to a major invasion is the fact that, contrary to his own assertion that Russians and Ukrainians will always be the same people, a big war will permanently break whatever bonds remain. And if an insurgent does not kill hundreds of Russian troops, eventually Ukraine will be free again. Because this truth comes up against objective 5, an all-out conquest is the least likely result. Putin is more cautious than people give him credit for, and Russia's newly-professional military is as casualty averse and reliant on firepower as America's, but it is unlikely that an invasion would be the weapon to bring this about except in the last resort. A major military setback in Ukraine's east, on the other hand, would be both NATO's inability to help and Zelensky's inability to shield his civilians. A limited operation opens the door to further conquest by non-military means. Troop deployments aside, Putin does not want to conquer Ukraine by force. Having to do this would be a partial failure of his own plan and possibly lead to a united European Union response that would be worse for Russia than a united NATO. The Transatlantic Alliance will always be hindered by [America's demise](https://medium.com/gen/fourth-america-is-almost-over-americans-want-a-divorce-9367a5d50df7), a process that Russia can now actively escalate if it chooses — and may, as part of Putin's ultimate revenge for the Soviet Union's fall. If I were in his situation, that would be my highest aim. However, Putin's priorities 1 and 2 are important. Everything he has done to bring NATO and America in a tizzy was supposed to show one thing to Ukraine: you are alone. And Ukraine is also Ukraine. America is running away just like it did in Afghanistan, Biden completely worried about his domestic audience and pitiful hopes for re-election in 2024. Biden, a classic politician who looks solely for his own interests, cannot be trusted and is as much an accelerator of America's demise at this point as Trump. Putin's maskirovka is intended to mask his primary objectives. Objective 5 is on his horizon, but Putin is smart enough to know he won't get it if there is an all-out war. Instead, after a sufficient provocation now or this summer, Russia can simply sit back and bombard Ukraine for days or weeks with weapons that Ukraine can't stop. A direct invasion of Ukraine at any time will follow an initial attempt to paraphrase and crush Ukraine's armed forces in the east because the main aim in all war is to defeat your enemy's military, not capture their cities. So, if war breaks out soon, the likely course of events if war breaks out like this: * Russia makes several attempts to keep a door open to talks and imply a willingness to back down
* If Zelensky refuses, rebels in Donbas begin making strides backed by Russian artillery and air, backed by Russian artillery and air, backed by Russian artillery and air.
* If Zelensky resists, rebels in Donbas begin making strides backed by Russian artillery and
( * Even as Ukraine's forces are smashed from the air,
Putin denies that an invasion is underway. If sanctions are lifted, he will increase by attacking more of Ukraine's military infrastructures. The attacks cease if Ukraine negotiates. At this point, it's on America to go forward with its sanctions threat, but Russia insists it is not attacking anyone, just supporting people under attack. The big attack that I fear could involve chemical weapons in order to specifically call into question American claims of Russian involvement and remind the world of the lies that brought America into Iraq. If major combat starts, it will continue until Zelensky agrees to terms or falls to a coup after Ukraine's military is deposed. Russia's forces surrounding Ukraine give Putin the opportunity to deploy one at a time or all at once. Maskirovka, as all Russian military doctrine, is based on Soviet experiences in the Second World War. Russia does not see war like the definition-obsessed Americans do — it isn't something declared, waged, and ended — not something that isn't. War is politics, and politics is war, and Russia has learned Clausewitz' lessons better than anyone. All conflict takes place on a continuum, and each move made is part of a larger, multi-layered game. Violence is simply a device that can be used to make a case. I hope, hope, that a war can still be avoided. However, America's plan has failed and is probably making it worse. paraphrasedout: Only Europe will ever defend Ukraine in the long run. Only Europe can cope with Russia. American leaders are too ignorant of geography, history, and systems to be trusted in this crisis. 
