# Basketball…Is…ART.

```
Compression: 98.12521499828001% (5705/5814)
Rouge 2: 69.33967474179195%
Rouge L: 80.9256725777644%
MD Similarity: 99.92197337357894%
Overall: 87.52732351667856%
```

It's been a minute since I've written about basketball, but have no fear — I'm back! You know how much a basketball and LeBron James fan I am, for those that know me. You will quickly learn about my obsession for the game for those that don't know me. While many people watch basketball, or any sport for that matter, as a form of entertainment, I take a different approach: Basketball, to me, is an educational device. I love watching the finer details of the game; this includes, but not limited to, footwork, spacing, rotations, off-ball movement, and so on; one could say I'm a nerd when it comes to hoops. However, all of this is important. Why?

 Why? Pourquoi? The game has done so much for me growing up, and I do my best to give back to the next generation so they can feel the effects of a sport so popular outside of the court. I promise you that I'll be an excellent coach when my time comes; until then, I'll be serving buckets on the court and sharing as much information as possible. **\_Basketball. Is.

 iS. Art.\_**

 ART.\_ The Golden State Warriors visited the Los Angeles Lakers for a prime-time game on national television last night. Despite a recent decline, the Warriors have been one of the league's best teams all year; I wish I could say the same for the Lakers. Despite having enough talent to hold a playoff spot, the Lakers have been abysmal; a lack of continuity and chemistry among their roster is evident, and the team is clinging to their playoff lives. In LeBron James, who has put together a spectacular appearance in his 19th-season, the Lakers are led by an all-time talent and resume. And yet, at 37 years old, even he can't expect this Lakers team to win the night after night. It's a sad reality for a fanbase that is used to championships — anything short of that is a season of a season, especially if you have LeBron James on your team. And for the most ardent fans, this Lakers season is as good as over. Well, that all changed last night against the Warriors, according to my opinion. Bettors were favored by Golden State

. All the actors were out in LA for this matchup. In other words, the stage was set for a masterful performance. The Warriors came into the Lakers arena and defeating them by 20 points, adding to the misery of this season. Queue in: The greatest player of our generation and perhaps of all time. He had other things in mind. In year 19 — which, to be fair, is more like year 22 if you account for all of the playoff games and mileage — and age 37, Mr. James put together his best Lakers performance on 61% shooting at age 37. The Lakers got off the game hot before falling down double-digits midway through the game; exactly what fans expected based on how this season had gone. LeBron was battling all game and had amassed 40 points through three quarters. The Lakers were trailing by a few points but the arena felt the heat of the game. The Warriors went on a run and were ahead by 6 points at the start of the 4th; a 6-point deficit for the Lakers now seems to be like 20 points. The James' tense appearance was in jeopardy. The next nine minutes of basketball were straight out of a movie. James stepped into the game and launched three 3-point bombs from way downtown to tie it up in a row. The arena went wild as everyone was in awe of what they were seeing. He's up to 49 points now and the mood had completely changed — the Lakers could have won this game. The lead shifted back and forth for the entire quarter as the team went back and forth. Both teams desperately needed a victory in this playoff game environment. It was number 6 that sealed the victory as the game came to an end. LeBron capped off a costly turnover with an alley-oop dunk so loud that I thought he was going to tear the rim down. The pass went a bit too far to corral, but he threw down the dunk with no hesitation or reaction after; the game wasn't over. Bron pulled in 3 defenders and dished out a wide open Carmelo Anthony with a 3-pointer to end the game, leaving Lakers up 6 with seconds remaining. James ended his epic game with two free-throws as the arena erupted, screaming "MVP!" MVP! MVP! 

MVP! Finishing with 56 points. LeBron James, who has worked with multiple franchises over his 19-year career, had just done it again. *When the stakes are high, the REAL motherfuckin' hoopers come out.* This victory changed the complexion of this season's season completely. The Lakers are still fighting for a playoff spot, but damn, it's all real now. This team's chance to make a postseason run seems to be real. Give him a healthy Anthony Davis and I'm giving them a fighting chance. Who in their right mind would write off a LeBron James team? A family friend of mine who doesn't follow basketball very closely enjoyed the luxury of attending the game in Los Angeles. We were sharing our excitement over the text of what had just transpired. "Magical" was the game's atmosphere and city afterwards, and she felt it on the air." The city discovered the glimmer of hope they needed for this season. Ladies and Gentlemen, that's the LeBron James effect. That is what makes basketball art. The ability to channel such negative feelings, channel into your own ability, and produce an all-time performance when the team and city need it most — it's simply something you feel. Hold on to that feeling. I'm not promising a title run. This team still has a few issues to address, but if you asked most Lakers' fans before last night,

 if you asked them. "Can this team make a deep-playoff run?" Most people would have said no, 

 Probably no. However, now? You've always got a chance if you have LeBron fucking James on your team. Godspeed.

 GOdspeed. 
