# 10 Questions to Ask to Understand NFTs

```
Compression: 101.93349934085249% (6959/6827)
Rouge 2: 60.35792552226005%
Rouge L: 77.14128320975618%
MD Similarity: 100.0%
Overall: 84.37480218300406%
```

People don't want to discuss how the very concept of 'NFT value' is so complicated — one of the most complicated concepts I have ever investigated! People are then coerced into distorted representations by the media, who openly condemn these depictions. Furthermore, people trying to learn about NFTs ask basic questions to those "in the know," and these questions were dismissed as "dumb." I attest that these questions are not dumb as an educator. In fact, they're absolutely vital — anyone who reads NFTs more closely is expected to answer these questions for themselves at some point in their journey from JPEG to DAO. The following ten questions were distilled from numerous conversations I've had teaching people about NFTs. The answer to every question is a significant step toward understanding the NFT's value. **1. How is an NFT different from a JPEG? ** What is the difference between an NFT and just "right-click saving" an image online? NFTs are pieces of the internet that can actually be owned. They are permanently embedded in a virtual record book that can never be changed, only added-onto. With a verified owner, NFTs can behave like collectibles like baseball cards, such as baseball cards. **2. If anyone wants to know who owns the photograph if anyone can just look at it? ** Just like anyone else can see a work of art in a gallery, only the owner has the right to sell it or commercialize it. **3. So can I make my own NFTs and sell them? ** Yes, anyone can make their own NFTs, but they may not be easy to sell. For example, if you made your own baseball cards, would they be as valuable to others as ones made by Major League Baseball? And if you're in the art world, will people be able to pay for your work? **4. Why do certain NFTs sell for so much more than they do? ** Most valuable NFTs are part of a well-known collection. These collections have a limited number of NFTs in them, and some collections have become extremely popular and desirable, often for different reasons. For example, the Bored Ape Yacht Club (BAYC) collection is now a well-known brand that celebrities and businesses buy into every week. In comparison, the CryptoPunks collection is considered the first NFT collection to be created. Owning a Punk is like owning a piece of technological history. As a collection rises, each constituent NFT receives more value. It's important to note that checking whether your NFT is part of a recognized collection or not is quick and simple. And although you can make an NFT that looks exactly like an NFT from a valuable collection of thousands of dollars, anyone online can quickly see that it is not an authentic piece from the original collection. **5. Is that all? ** NFTs are not the same thing as cryptocurrencies, speculation, profits, or scams. In fact, whether you like it or not, the essence of an NFT collection is actually "community." The idea of a community of owners is built-in to every NFT collection's very concept. The most common example of this is the proliferation of private online chat rooms open only to individuals that can prove that they own a piece of a particular NFT collection. This aspect of value is extremely difficult to convey to those who have never been a member of an NFT group. And on reflection, all I can say is that NFTs are uncannily effective at uniting communities of like-minded individuals both online and in-person — to truly understand what this means, I suggest entering one such community yourself! **6. So are NFTs just a way to buy friends? ** NFTs are not like memberships to a country club or social club, but they can be so much more. These days, 

NFTs have migrated beyond the artwork attached to them (which, I admit, is often disappointing) to encompass a wide variety of different uses or "utilities." Any NFTs enable you to be a part-owner in a real-world asset, such as a company. Others enable you to help your favorite musical artists and then share their earnings with their NFT owners, who then share their profits with their NFT owners. NFTs are effectively redefining ownership of both virtual and physical assets, as shown by the above. **7. Why do you need NFTs to join a club or invest in a company? ** NFTs are revolutionary in the sense that they make membership or ownership of individuals easily buyable, sellable, and transferable among individuals through online marketplaces for NFTs. Looking at your digital wallet can quickly establish ownership of particular NFTs. NFTs can even be organized into Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs), which are similar to mini-corporations with no central leadership that can make decisions based on automatic voting mechanisms controlled bottom-up by NFT holders. Isn't that wild? **8. Is NFTs a fad?

 Whether or not they are a fad. ** Fads become extremely popular right away, but they do not tend to be around for very long. NFTs have definite similarities with fads! For example, NFT value is rather subjective, and NFTs have soared in importance in the last year, and However, although the value of NFTs is largely determined by the community, this isn't as alarming as it seems. While it's likely to be difficult to figure out why people value intangible assets like NFTs at first, let's back up a bit and discuss value in general. Why do people value Teslas or Rolexes or the Saint Laurent leather jacket? What is abstract art?

 Describe it. I guarantee you that many people doubted the value of items connected to such intangible value at one point in time. They don't anymore. NFTs, I argue, are simply an extension of what some people consider to be valuable. **9. So NFTs are here to stay? ** We've come a long way from JPEGs, I've hope to have shown that, although people can buy, sell, and profit from their NFTs, the essence of an NFT collection is actually the community organized by virtue of shared ownership of virtual assets. I do believe NFTs are here to stay because of the ability of NFTs to organize such societies. **10. What is the next step? ** People are considering new ways to use NFTs every day. NFTs are redefining ownership in surprising and unexpected ways, as I mentioned before. NFT owners have recently attempted to buy entire sports teams (or even the Constitution of the United States! Others are using NFTs for political control. Still others are using NFTs for the next wave of "play to earn" video games. I'm still being surprised by the possibility of what an NFT can be as someone who has been in the NFT space for a while. In fact, I've been convinced that the word "NFT" is now highly outdated — "NFTs" are no longer a single term but a growing heterogeneous group of utilities. We've only scratched the surface of how to use this amazing technology. And the people I know working on it are nothing short of extraordinary. If someone tells you they've got NFTs all figured out, consider twice before inviting them to your Web3 dinner party;) 
