# What’s Next for the Russian Federation

```
Compression: 102.97029702970298% (4160/4040)
Rouge 2: 74.22695520901041%
Rouge L: 81.54638421168066%
MD Similarity: 96.96969696969697%
Overall: 87.42818334002125%
```

They don't want to be there, in other words. Now we know the rumors of martial law (I believe it will come) were tamped down by Vladimir Putin. Demonstrations persist throughout the federation. It's not limited to Moscow and St Petersburg, but also in the more cosmopolitan areas of the federation. It's also in places like [Kazakhstan](https://www.thenews.com.pk/print/939347-kazakhstan-permits-pro-ukraine-rally). This is a client state of the Russian Federation, not unlike Chechnya. They may be attempting to avoid sanctions, but it is still very significant. It means there is internal dissatisfaction. There's another thing. The Rosgvardya, a large portion of the national guard, has been sent to Ukraine. Many people have been killed or injured. At this time, some are in captivity. I will not post any video or audio of them speaking to the press because doing so would be in breach of the Geneva Convention. In time, those testimonies should be added to war crimes and the history of the war. I cannot express in any conscience as a former Red Cross medic However, they seem to confirm a common tale we've heard. They didn't know they were sent to war. They don't want to be there. They're blaming their government. As well as a few of the troops were conscripts, who were forced to sign contracts, This is how Putin's assertion that only contract soldiers are on the front lines can deceive the truth. He is correct on technical terms. He is not telling people how these conscripts were coerced to do this. A forty-mile convoy seems to be stuck, although perhaps abandoned. This isn't helping. You know this is a disaster if you are a Russian military planner. This is why the oligarchs bought all the yachts, planes, and houses in other countries. The truth is that deep corruption led to a Potemkin army. We have initial reports of strikes within the Russian Federation. These are impossible to quantify, so use the right amount of salt you need and mainly skepticism. However, some of this is likely to be happening right now. The middle class is also starting to feel this way. Brownwheat and sugar are starting to ferment. If you start to see buckwheat rationed, that's a bad sign. However, they have lost a lot of purchasing power with salaries that were low to begin with. The caskets are starting to arrive home. This will bring on the rage of the masses because I can guarantee that no child of the elite is anywhere near to being in uniform or near any front line. Now is the possibility of another revolution and the Russian Federation's further balkanization. At the end of the first world war, we saw a military that was poorly prepared and led. Troops mutinied, and we have proof that this may have occurred already. The army that came back from Afghanistan went to a world that was crumbling apart. This is how the Baltic States and Ukraine came to be independent. The USSR was unable to hold the lights on or the buckwheat on the shelves. The sugar is the subject of the issue. The Russian economy is reeling. We know the oligarchs are having a bad day because luxury products are no longer available on the market. However, regular people are feeling it. What is Putin doing?

 'What is Putin doing? He has closed the country to the world and jailed even calling this war a war. This could be the start of a second Russian revolution. The dynamic is in play. Of course, no revolution starts from nothing. The 1917 revolution was also a result of the 1905 Russo-Japanese war. These days pressure cookers tend to move at a much faster rate. Russia is one right now. This is from [Radio Free Europe](https://www.rferl.org/a/russian-soldiers-ukraine-cannon-fodder-governor/31739187.html), and it is an example of this tension: The governor answered in University. This is in the Far East. In Rural Siberia, 

 a narrator. These were cops, not soldiers. The fact that whole towns are burying their dead means that Russia is unable to mask the severity of this tragedy. The future is a much more diminished Russian Federation. This is Putin's legacy. Is it likely that the country lives or not, as it currently exists, is a good question. 
